README.md, before:

# Toolbox

This is a collection of tricks, tools, libraries, APIs and data sources for creative projects. It's a reference as well as a compendium of things you can do in the browser and the command line.

It's inspired by [javierarce/toolbox](https://github.com/javierarce/toolbox). Contributions are welcome via [issues](https://github.com/danburzo/toolbox/issues) or [pull requests](https://github.com/danburzo/toolbox/pulls).

## JavaScript libraries

### Image processing

#### [quaggaJS](https://github.com/serratus/quaggaJS)

> __QuaggaJS is a barcode-scanner entirely written in JavaScript__ supporting real-time localization and decoding of various types of barcodes such as EAN, CODE 128, CODE 39, EAN 8, UPC-A, UPC-C, I2of5 and CODABAR. The library is also capable of using `getUserMedia` to get direct access to the user's camera stream. Although the code relies on heavy image- processing even recent smartphones are capable of locating and decoding barcodes in real-time.
 
For reading barcodes with a webcam or phone camera. See also __[JSBarcode](https://github.com/lindell/JsBarcode)__ for _generating_ barcodes.

#### [omggif](https://github.com/deanm/omggif)

> JavaScript implementation of a GIF 89a encoder and decoder.

For making GIFs. [Animated_GIF](https://github.com/sole/Animated_GIF), for example, builds on top of this library.

#### [exif.js](https://github.com/jseidelin/exif-js)

> JavaScript library for reading EXIF image metadata.

Extracting information from JPEG files.

#### [Lanczos.js](https://github.com/mudcube/Lanczos.js)

> Lancszos image resampling.

This is for resizing images nicely in the browser.

### Drawing, illustration, motion

| Github repo | Description | Useful for |
| ----------- | ----------- | ---------- |
[chroma.js](https://github.com/gka/chroma.js) | JavaScript library for all kinds of color manipulations. | Converting a color from and to any format, generate pleasing color palettes and color variations. See also [TinyColor](https://github.com/bgrins/TinyColor).
[paper.js](https://github.com/paperjs/paper.js) | The Swiss Army Knife of Vector Graphics Scripting.
[two.js](https://github.com/jonobr1/two.js) | A renderer agnostic two-dimensional drawing api for the web.
[opentype.js](https://github.com/nodebox/opentype.js) | Read and write OpenType fonts using JavaScript.
[snap.svg](https://github.com/adobe-webplatform/Snap.svg) | The JavaScript library for modern SVG graphics.
[p5.js](https://github.com/lmccart/p5.js) | A JS client-side library for creating graphic and interactive experiences, based on the core principles of Processing.
[rune.js](https://github.com/runemadsen/rune.js) | A JavaScript library for programming graphic design systems with SVG.
[mojs](https://github.com/legomushroom/mojs) | motion graphics toolbelt for the web
[ccapture.js](https://github.com/spite/ccapture.js/) | A library to capture canvas-based animations at a fixed framerate.
[matter-js](https://github.com/liabru/matter-js) | A 2D rigid body physics engine for the web 

### Data visualization

| Github repo | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
[d3](https://github.com/mbostock/d3) | A JavaScript visualization library for HTML and SVG. See also [awesome-d3](https://github.com/wbkd/awesome-d3) for things you can do with it.
[MetricsGraphics](https://github.com/mozilla/metrics-graphics) | A library optimized for concise, principled data graphics and layouts, built on top of d3
[dagre](https://github.com/cpettitt/dagre) | Directed graph renderer for JavaScript (see also [dagre-d3](https://github.com/cpettitt/dagre-d3)).
[WebCola](https://github.com/tgdwyer/WebCola) | JavaScript constraint-based graph layout.
[plottable](https://github.com/palantir/plottable) | A library of modular chart components built on D3

### 3D, Virtual Reality

| Github repo | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
[three.js](https://github.com/mrdoob/three.js/) | JavaScript 3D library.
[pre3d](https://github.com/deanm/pre3d/) | JavaScript 3d rendering engine.
[aframe](https://aframe.io/) | Building blocks for the VR Web.
[regl](https://github.com/mikolalysenko/regl) | Functional WebGL

### Audio

| Github repo | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
[dancer.js](https://github.com/jsantell/dancer.js) |
[timbre.js](https://github.com/mohayonao/timbre.js/) | JavaScript library for objective sound programming 
[audio-tags](https://github.com/sole/audio-tags) | An experimental thingie bridging Web Components with Web Audio.
[MIDI.js](https://github.com/mudcube/MIDI.js) | Making life easy to create a MIDI-app on the web.
[tuna](https://github.com/Dinahmoe/tuna) | An audio effects library for Web Audio.
[PitchDetect](https://github.com/cwilso/PitchDetect) | Pitch detection in Web Audio using autocorrelation.
[WebAudio](https://github.com/cwilso/WebAudio) | Web Audio API Playground.
[Gibberish](https://github.com/charlieroberts/Gibberish) | Fast, JavaScript DSP library that creates JIT optimized audio callbacks using code generation techniques
[Tone.js](https://github.com/Tonejs/Tone.js) | A Web Audio framework for making interactive music in the browser. 
[howler.js](https://github.com/goldfire/howler.js) | Javascript audio library for the modern web.
[genish.js](https://github.com/charlieroberts/genish.js) | A library for generating optimized, single-sample audio callbacks in JavaScript. Inspired by gen~ in Max/MSP.

# User Interfaces

| Github repo | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
[interface.js](https://github.com/charlieroberts/interface.js) | gui library for music / arts applications that works with touch, mouse and motion events.
[Gibber](https://github.com/charlieroberts/Gibber) | An audiovisual live coding environment for the browser.
[zingtouch](https://github.com/zingchart/zingtouch) | A JavaScript touch gesture detection library for the modern web

### Mapping

| Github repo | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
[leaflet.js](https://github.com/Leaflet/Leaflet) | JavaScript library for mobile-friendly interactive maps.
[Stamen maps](https://github.com/stamen/maps.stamen.com) | 
[turf.js](https://github.com/Turfjs/turf) | A modular geospatial engine written in JavaScript.

### Gamemaking

| Github repo | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
[coquette](https://github.com/maryrosecook/coquette) | A micro framework for JavaScript games. Handles collision detection, the game update loop, canvas rendering, and keyboard and mouse input.

### Rich text editing

| Github repo | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
[scribe](https://github.com/guardian/scribe) | A rich text editor framework for the web platform.

### Working with documents

| Github repo | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
[pdf.js](https://github.com/mozilla/pdf.js/) | PDF reader in JavaScript.
[pdf2json](https://github.com/modesty/pdf2json) | A PDF file parser that converts PDF binaries to text-based JSON, powered by a fork of pdf.js
[pdfkit](https://github.com/devongovett/pdfkit) | A JavaScript PDF generation library for Node and the browser
[jsPDF](https://github.com/MrRio/jsPDF) | Generate PDF files in JavaScript. 
[epub.js](https://github.com/futurepress/epub.js/) | EPUBs in the browser.
[magicbook](https://github.com/magicbookproject/magicbook) | It aims to be the best free tool for creating print and digital books from a single source.

### Algorithms, Data structures

| Github repo | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
[graphlib](https://github.com/cpettitt/graphlib) | A directed multi-graph library for JavaScript.
[brain](https://github.com/harthur/brain) | Neural networks in JavaScript.

### Sensible app architecture

| Github repo | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
[Backbone](https://github.com/jashkenas/backbone) | Models, Views, Collections, Events, Router.
[vue.js](https://github.com/vuejs/vue) | A lightweight alternative to Angular or React.
[Bluebird](https://github.com/petkaantonov/bluebird) | Bluebird is a full featured promise library with unmatched performance.
[hackathon-starter](https://github.com/sahat/hackathon-starter) | A boilerplate for Node.js web applications

### Web scraping, data extraction

| Github repo | Description | Notes |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----- |
[artoo](https://github.com/medialab/artoo) | artoo.js is a piece of JavaScript code meant to be run in your browser's console to provide you with some scraping utilities. | This allows you to create custom bookmarklets to scrape a web page from your browser; I could see this being used in places where on a server you'd have to jump through some hoops, e.g. getting your Facebook saved links
[x-ray](https://github.com/lapwinglabs/x-ray) | The next web scraper. See through the `<html>` noise. | From the maker of [cheerio](https://github.com/cheeriojs/cheerio), and built on top of it, x-ray gives you a terse, fluent API to scrape and navigate pages.
[fathom](https://github.com/mozilla/fathom) | A framework for extracting meaning from web pages. | Seems to be still a work in progress, but it will ultimately be a tool for understanding where some particular type of content is on a page: "Where is the body? The title? Is this a "next page" button? Is this a comment form, and are there comments here? By better understanding the parts of a page, we can improve our understanding of how a user interacts with it." ([source](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Context_Graph#Fathom))
[readability](https://github.com/mozilla/readability) | A standalone version of the readability library used for Firefox Reader View. | Extract the main content from a web page.

## Data sets

### Language

| Github repo | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
[Words](https://github.com/atebits/Words/) | A _huge_ dataset of words in four languages (English, German, Spanish and French) used in Atebits' game Letterpress.
[corpora](https://github.com/dariusk/corpora) | A collection of small corpuses of interesting data for the creation of bots and similar stuff.

### Geographical Data

| Name | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
[Natural Earth Vector](https://github.com/nvkelso/natural-earth-vector) | A global, public domain map dataset available at three scales and featuring tightly integrated vector and raster data.
[countries](https://github.com/mledoze/countries) | World countries in JSON, CSV and XML.
[geonames](http://www.geonames.org/export/) | contains over 10 million geographical names and consists of over 9 million unique features whereof 2.8 million populated places and 5.5 million alternate names.
[Geofabrik OSM Data Extracts](http://download.geofabrik.de/) | on continent/country level.
[Mapzen Metro Extracts](https://mapzen.com/data/metro-extracts) | City-sized portions of OpenStreetMap, served weekly 
[all-the-cities](https://github.com/zeke/all-the-cities) |  All the 138,398 cities of the world with a population of at least 1000 inhabitants, in a big JSON array.

### Lists of datasets

| Github repo | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
[Awesome public datasets](https://github.com/caesar0301/awesome-public-datasets) | 

### Misc

| Github repo | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| [whiskyverse](https://github.com/Jonty/whiskyverse/) | JSON file containing Scotch Malt Whisky Society bottles |


## APIs

| Name | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
[Wordnik](http://developer.wordnik.com/) | The Wordnik API lets you request definitions, example sentences, spelling suggestions, related words like synonyms and antonyms, phrases containing a given word, word autocompletion, random words, words of the day, and much more.
[Echo Nest](http://developer.echonest.com/) | The Echo Nest offers an incredible array of music data and services for developers to build amazing apps and experiences. See also [echonest/remix](https://github.com/echonest/remix).
[Openapi](http://openapi.ro/) | (Romanian) Provides information about companies, IP geolocation, validation for CIF / CNP / IBAN / BIC, exchange rate, postal codes, singular and plural forms of Romanian words


## Command-Line Tools

| Name | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
[fonttools](https://github.com/behdad/fonttools/) | does TTF/OTF conversion to and from XML. This allows you to edit fonts (e.g. metadata) in plain-text and then rebuild them.
[Osmosis](http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Osmosis) | helps you filter & merge OpenStreetMap data files (XML, PBF).
[textkit](https://github.com/learntextvis/textkit) | Command line tool for manipulating and analyzing text 
[electron-pdf](https://github.com/fraserxu/electron-pdf) |  A command line tool to generate PDF from URL, HTML or Markdown files. 
[unproject_text](https://github.com/mzucker/unproject_text) | A Python script to adjust the perspective for scanned/photographed pages of texts, making it easier to run Optical Character Recognition on it.

## Online tools

| Name | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
[geojson.io](http://geojson.io) | geojson.io is a quick, simple tool for creating, viewing, and sharing maps. geojson.io is named after GeoJSON, an open source data format, and it supports GeoJSON in all ways - but also accepts KML, GPX, CSV, GTFS, TopoJSON, and other formats.
[Overpass Turbo](https://overpass-turbo.eu/) | a web-based data filtering tool for OpenStreetMap. With overpass turbo you can run Overpass API queries and analyse the resulting OSM data interactively on a map. There is an integrated Wizard which makes creating queries super easy.

---

## Miscellaneous tips & tricks

### Start a server for a folder

Run `python -m SimpleHTTPServer` in your project folder to make it available at [`http://localhost:8000`](http://localhost:8000).

__Note:__ The syntax above is for the Python 2.x that comes preinstalled with macOS and Linux. The equivalent syntax for Python 3 is `python -m http.server`. 

### Fetch a file from the web

To fetch a file from the web with the command line, using `wget` is straightforward:

```shell
wget http://download.geofabrik.de/europe/romania-latest.osm.pbf
```

(On macOS, you can install `wget` with Homebrew: `brew install wget`)

Or, fetching a file in Node.js:

```js
require('http').get('http://download.geofabrik.de/europe/romania-latest.osm.pbf', function(response) {
    response.pipe(require('fs').createWriteStream('romania-latest.osm.pbf'));
});
```

### Make a S3 bucket publicly available

To use a S3 bucket to keep a bunch of files and make them publicly available, you need to make a __bucket policy__. This is under _Permissions_ section on the _Properties_ tab for your bucket. Paste this into the bucket policy (`myBucketName` should be the name of your bucket):

```js
{
	"Version": "2012-10-17",
	"Statement": [
		{
			"Sid": "PublicReadGetObject",
			"Effect": "Allow",
			"Principal": "*",
			"Action": "s3:GetObject",
			"Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::myBucketName/*"
		}
	]
}
```

All the files inside will typically be available at `http://myBucketName.s3.amazonaws.com/path/to/file` but you can grab the exact URL from the _Static Website Hosting_ section in the _Properties_ tab.

__Extra credit:__ This is super-useful for hosting video files, since S3 supports __partial content requests__ which is needed to loop `<video>` on your web pages.

### Wget for website mirroring / scraping

Here are some useful tricks with `wget`. [More of them here](http://www.labnol.org/software/wget-command-examples/28750/).

#### Mirror a website

```
wget --mirror --no-clobber --no-parent --wait=3 --execute robots=off --domains=danburzo.ro,assets.danburzo.ro ‐‐user-agent=Mozilla danburzo.ro
```

A quick explanation for these flags: 

* `--mirror` is a shorthand for `-r -N -l inf --no-remove-listing`, which are some switches useful for scraping
* `--no-clobber` instructs wget not to fetch each occurrence of the same URL as a separate file
* `--no-parent` don't go up the hierarchy
* `--wait=seconds` is used to wait for N seconds between requests, a.k.a. being nice to the server
* `--execute robots=off` will ignore the `robots.txt` file on the website and any `nofollow` attributes on links
* `--domains=domain1,domain2,...` is a list of domain names to consider when crawling (you'll want to include here any domains that hold the assets for the page)
* `--user-agent=UserAgentString` can be used in case the server blocks access based on the User Agent

#### Download sequential URLs

```
wget http://example.com/records/{1..1000}
```

#### Download a list of URLs

The URLs can be specified in a separate file `list-of-URLs.txt`, with one URL per line.

```
wget ‐‐input list-of-URLs.txt
```

Commit message:

Added tesseract.js OCR JS library

README.md, after:

# Toolbox

This is a collection of tricks, tools, libraries, APIs and data sources for creative projects. It's a reference as well as a compendium of things you can do in the browser and the command line.

It's inspired by [javierarce/toolbox](https://github.com/javierarce/toolbox). Contributions are welcome via [issues](https://github.com/danburzo/toolbox/issues) or [pull requests](https://github.com/danburzo/toolbox/pulls).

## JavaScript libraries

### Image processing, optical character recognition (OCR)

#### [quaggaJS](https://github.com/serratus/quaggaJS)

> __QuaggaJS is a barcode-scanner entirely written in JavaScript__ supporting real-time localization and decoding of various types of barcodes such as EAN, CODE 128, CODE 39, EAN 8, UPC-A, UPC-C, I2of5 and CODABAR. The library is also capable of using `getUserMedia` to get direct access to the user's camera stream. Although the code relies on heavy image- processing even recent smartphones are capable of locating and decoding barcodes in real-time.
 
For reading barcodes with a webcam or phone camera. See also __[JSBarcode](https://github.com/lindell/JsBarcode)__ for _generating_ barcodes.

#### [omggif](https://github.com/deanm/omggif)

> JavaScript implementation of a GIF 89a encoder and decoder.

For making GIFs. [Animated_GIF](https://github.com/sole/Animated_GIF), for example, builds on top of this library.

#### [exif.js](https://github.com/jseidelin/exif-js)

> JavaScript library for reading EXIF image metadata.

Extracting information from JPEG files.

#### [Lanczos.js](https://github.com/mudcube/Lanczos.js)

> Lancszos image resampling.

This is for resizing images nicely in the browser.

#### [tesseract.js](https://github.com/naptha/tesseract.js)

> Tesseract.js is a javascript library that gets words in almost any language out of images.


### Drawing, illustration, motion

| Github repo | Description | Useful for |
| ----------- | ----------- | ---------- |
[chroma.js](https://github.com/gka/chroma.js) | JavaScript library for all kinds of color manipulations. | Converting a color from and to any format, generate pleasing color palettes and color variations. See also [TinyColor](https://github.com/bgrins/TinyColor).
[paper.js](https://github.com/paperjs/paper.js) | The Swiss Army Knife of Vector Graphics Scripting.
[two.js](https://github.com/jonobr1/two.js) | A renderer agnostic two-dimensional drawing api for the web.
[opentype.js](https://github.com/nodebox/opentype.js) | Read and write OpenType fonts using JavaScript.
[snap.svg](https://github.com/adobe-webplatform/Snap.svg) | The JavaScript library for modern SVG graphics.
[p5.js](https://github.com/lmccart/p5.js) | A JS client-side library for creating graphic and interactive experiences, based on the core principles of Processing.
[rune.js](https://github.com/runemadsen/rune.js) | A JavaScript library for programming graphic design systems with SVG.
[mojs](https://github.com/legomushroom/mojs) | motion graphics toolbelt for the web
[ccapture.js](https://github.com/spite/ccapture.js/) | A library to capture canvas-based animations at a fixed framerate.
[matter-js](https://github.com/liabru/matter-js) | A 2D rigid body physics engine for the web 

### Data visualization

| Github repo | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
[d3](https://github.com/mbostock/d3) | A JavaScript visualization library for HTML and SVG. See also [awesome-d3](https://github.com/wbkd/awesome-d3) for things you can do with it.
[MetricsGraphics](https://github.com/mozilla/metrics-graphics) | A library optimized for concise, principled data graphics and layouts, built on top of d3
[dagre](https://github.com/cpettitt/dagre) | Directed graph renderer for JavaScript (see also [dagre-d3](https://github.com/cpettitt/dagre-d3)).
[WebCola](https://github.com/tgdwyer/WebCola) | JavaScript constraint-based graph layout.
[plottable](https://github.com/palantir/plottable) | A library of modular chart components built on D3

### 3D, Virtual Reality

| Github repo | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
[three.js](https://github.com/mrdoob/three.js/) | JavaScript 3D library.
[pre3d](https://github.com/deanm/pre3d/) | JavaScript 3d rendering engine.
[aframe](https://aframe.io/) | Building blocks for the VR Web.
[regl](https://github.com/mikolalysenko/regl) | Functional WebGL

### Audio

| Github repo | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
[dancer.js](https://github.com/jsantell/dancer.js) |
[timbre.js](https://github.com/mohayonao/timbre.js/) | JavaScript library for objective sound programming 
[audio-tags](https://github.com/sole/audio-tags) | An experimental thingie bridging Web Components with Web Audio.
[MIDI.js](https://github.com/mudcube/MIDI.js) | Making life easy to create a MIDI-app on the web.
[tuna](https://github.com/Dinahmoe/tuna) | An audio effects library for Web Audio.
[PitchDetect](https://github.com/cwilso/PitchDetect) | Pitch detection in Web Audio using autocorrelation.
[WebAudio](https://github.com/cwilso/WebAudio) | Web Audio API Playground.
[Gibberish](https://github.com/charlieroberts/Gibberish) | Fast, JavaScript DSP library that creates JIT optimized audio callbacks using code generation techniques
[Tone.js](https://github.com/Tonejs/Tone.js) | A Web Audio framework for making interactive music in the browser. 
[howler.js](https://github.com/goldfire/howler.js) | Javascript audio library for the modern web.
[genish.js](https://github.com/charlieroberts/genish.js) | A library for generating optimized, single-sample audio callbacks in JavaScript. Inspired by gen~ in Max/MSP.

# User Interfaces

| Github repo | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
[interface.js](https://github.com/charlieroberts/interface.js) | gui library for music / arts applications that works with touch, mouse and motion events.
[Gibber](https://github.com/charlieroberts/Gibber) | An audiovisual live coding environment for the browser.
[zingtouch](https://github.com/zingchart/zingtouch) | A JavaScript touch gesture detection library for the modern web

### Mapping

| Github repo | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
[leaflet.js](https://github.com/Leaflet/Leaflet) | JavaScript library for mobile-friendly interactive maps.
[Stamen maps](https://github.com/stamen/maps.stamen.com) | 
[turf.js](https://github.com/Turfjs/turf) | A modular geospatial engine written in JavaScript.

### Gamemaking

| Github repo | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
[coquette](https://github.com/maryrosecook/coquette) | A micro framework for JavaScript games. Handles collision detection, the game update loop, canvas rendering, and keyboard and mouse input.

### Rich text editing

| Github repo | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
[scribe](https://github.com/guardian/scribe) | A rich text editor framework for the web platform.

### Working with documents

| Github repo | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
[pdf.js](https://github.com/mozilla/pdf.js/) | PDF reader in JavaScript.
[pdf2json](https://github.com/modesty/pdf2json) | A PDF file parser that converts PDF binaries to text-based JSON, powered by a fork of pdf.js
[pdfkit](https://github.com/devongovett/pdfkit) | A JavaScript PDF generation library for Node and the browser
[jsPDF](https://github.com/MrRio/jsPDF) | Generate PDF files in JavaScript. 
[epub.js](https://github.com/futurepress/epub.js/) | EPUBs in the browser.
[magicbook](https://github.com/magicbookproject/magicbook) | It aims to be the best free tool for creating print and digital books from a single source.

### Algorithms, Data structures

| Github repo | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
[graphlib](https://github.com/cpettitt/graphlib) | A directed multi-graph library for JavaScript.
[brain](https://github.com/harthur/brain) | Neural networks in JavaScript.

### Sensible app architecture

| Github repo | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
[Backbone](https://github.com/jashkenas/backbone) | Models, Views, Collections, Events, Router.
[vue.js](https://github.com/vuejs/vue) | A lightweight alternative to Angular or React.
[Bluebird](https://github.com/petkaantonov/bluebird) | Bluebird is a full featured promise library with unmatched performance.
[hackathon-starter](https://github.com/sahat/hackathon-starter) | A boilerplate for Node.js web applications

### Web scraping, data extraction

| Github repo | Description | Notes |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----- |
[artoo](https://github.com/medialab/artoo) | artoo.js is a piece of JavaScript code meant to be run in your browser's console to provide you with some scraping utilities. | This allows you to create custom bookmarklets to scrape a web page from your browser; I could see this being used in places where on a server you'd have to jump through some hoops, e.g. getting your Facebook saved links
[x-ray](https://github.com/lapwinglabs/x-ray) | The next web scraper. See through the `<html>` noise. | From the maker of [cheerio](https://github.com/cheeriojs/cheerio), and built on top of it, x-ray gives you a terse, fluent API to scrape and navigate pages.
[fathom](https://github.com/mozilla/fathom) | A framework for extracting meaning from web pages. | Seems to be still a work in progress, but it will ultimately be a tool for understanding where some particular type of content is on a page: "Where is the body? The title? Is this a "next page" button? Is this a comment form, and are there comments here? By better understanding the parts of a page, we can improve our understanding of how a user interacts with it." ([source](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Context_Graph#Fathom))
[readability](https://github.com/mozilla/readability) | A standalone version of the readability library used for Firefox Reader View. | Extract the main content from a web page.

## Data sets

### Language

| Github repo | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
[Words](https://github.com/atebits/Words/) | A _huge_ dataset of words in four languages (English, German, Spanish and French) used in Atebits' game Letterpress.
[corpora](https://github.com/dariusk/corpora) | A collection of small corpuses of interesting data for the creation of bots and similar stuff.

### Geographical Data

| Name | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
[Natural Earth Vector](https://github.com/nvkelso/natural-earth-vector) | A global, public domain map dataset available at three scales and featuring tightly integrated vector and raster data.
[countries](https://github.com/mledoze/countries) | World countries in JSON, CSV and XML.
[geonames](http://www.geonames.org/export/) | contains over 10 million geographical names and consists of over 9 million unique features whereof 2.8 million populated places and 5.5 million alternate names.
[Geofabrik OSM Data Extracts](http://download.geofabrik.de/) | on continent/country level.
[Mapzen Metro Extracts](https://mapzen.com/data/metro-extracts) | City-sized portions of OpenStreetMap, served weekly 
[all-the-cities](https://github.com/zeke/all-the-cities) |  All the 138,398 cities of the world with a population of at least 1000 inhabitants, in a big JSON array.

### Lists of datasets

| Github repo | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
[Awesome public datasets](https://github.com/caesar0301/awesome-public-datasets) | 

### Misc

| Github repo | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| [whiskyverse](https://github.com/Jonty/whiskyverse/) | JSON file containing Scotch Malt Whisky Society bottles |


## APIs

| Name | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
[Wordnik](http://developer.wordnik.com/) | The Wordnik API lets you request definitions, example sentences, spelling suggestions, related words like synonyms and antonyms, phrases containing a given word, word autocompletion, random words, words of the day, and much more.
[Echo Nest](http://developer.echonest.com/) | The Echo Nest offers an incredible array of music data and services for developers to build amazing apps and experiences. See also [echonest/remix](https://github.com/echonest/remix).
[Openapi](http://openapi.ro/) | (Romanian) Provides information about companies, IP geolocation, validation for CIF / CNP / IBAN / BIC, exchange rate, postal codes, singular and plural forms of Romanian words


## Command-Line Tools

| Name | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
[fonttools](https://github.com/behdad/fonttools/) | does TTF/OTF conversion to and from XML. This allows you to edit fonts (e.g. metadata) in plain-text and then rebuild them.
[Osmosis](http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Osmosis) | helps you filter & merge OpenStreetMap data files (XML, PBF).
[textkit](https://github.com/learntextvis/textkit) | Command line tool for manipulating and analyzing text 
[electron-pdf](https://github.com/fraserxu/electron-pdf) |  A command line tool to generate PDF from URL, HTML or Markdown files. 
[unproject_text](https://github.com/mzucker/unproject_text) | A Python script to adjust the perspective for scanned/photographed pages of texts, making it easier to run Optical Character Recognition on it.

## Online tools

| Name | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
[geojson.io](http://geojson.io) | geojson.io is a quick, simple tool for creating, viewing, and sharing maps. geojson.io is named after GeoJSON, an open source data format, and it supports GeoJSON in all ways - but also accepts KML, GPX, CSV, GTFS, TopoJSON, and other formats.
[Overpass Turbo](https://overpass-turbo.eu/) | a web-based data filtering tool for OpenStreetMap. With overpass turbo you can run Overpass API queries and analyse the resulting OSM data interactively on a map. There is an integrated Wizard which makes creating queries super easy.

---

## Miscellaneous tips & tricks

### Start a server for a folder

Run `python -m SimpleHTTPServer` in your project folder to make it available at [`http://localhost:8000`](http://localhost:8000).

__Note:__ The syntax above is for the Python 2.x that comes preinstalled with macOS and Linux. The equivalent syntax for Python 3 is `python -m http.server`. 

### Fetch a file from the web

To fetch a file from the web with the command line, using `wget` is straightforward:

```shell
wget http://download.geofabrik.de/europe/romania-latest.osm.pbf
```

(On macOS, you can install `wget` with Homebrew: `brew install wget`)

Or, fetching a file in Node.js:

```js
require('http').get('http://download.geofabrik.de/europe/romania-latest.osm.pbf', function(response) {
    response.pipe(require('fs').createWriteStream('romania-latest.osm.pbf'));
});
```

### Make a S3 bucket publicly available

To use a S3 bucket to keep a bunch of files and make them publicly available, you need to make a __bucket policy__. This is under _Permissions_ section on the _Properties_ tab for your bucket. Paste this into the bucket policy (`myBucketName` should be the name of your bucket):

```js
{
	"Version": "2012-10-17",
	"Statement": [
		{
			"Sid": "PublicReadGetObject",
			"Effect": "Allow",
			"Principal": "*",
			"Action": "s3:GetObject",
			"Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::myBucketName/*"
		}
	]
}
```

All the files inside will typically be available at `http://myBucketName.s3.amazonaws.com/path/to/file` but you can grab the exact URL from the _Static Website Hosting_ section in the _Properties_ tab.

__Extra credit:__ This is super-useful for hosting video files, since S3 supports __partial content requests__ which is needed to loop `<video>` on your web pages.

### Wget for website mirroring / scraping

Here are some useful tricks with `wget`. [More of them here](http://www.labnol.org/software/wget-command-examples/28750/).

#### Mirror a website

```
wget --mirror --no-clobber --no-parent --wait=3 --execute robots=off --domains=danburzo.ro,assets.danburzo.ro ‐‐user-agent=Mozilla danburzo.ro
```

A quick explanation for these flags: 

* `--mirror` is a shorthand for `-r -N -l inf --no-remove-listing`, which are some switches useful for scraping
* `--no-clobber` instructs wget not to fetch each occurrence of the same URL as a separate file
* `--no-parent` don't go up the hierarchy
* `--wait=seconds` is used to wait for N seconds between requests, a.k.a. being nice to the server
* `--execute robots=off` will ignore the `robots.txt` file on the website and any `nofollow` attributes on links
* `--domains=domain1,domain2,...` is a list of domain names to consider when crawling (you'll want to include here any domains that hold the assets for the page)
* `--user-agent=UserAgentString` can be used in case the server blocks access based on the User Agent

#### Download sequential URLs

```
wget http://example.com/records/{1..1000}
```

#### Download a list of URLs

The URLs can be specified in a separate file `list-of-URLs.txt`, with one URL per line.

```
wget ‐‐input list-of-URLs.txt
```
